{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Calibri;}}
\fs24
\par\b Inventory Control Program Status Summary\b0\par
Prepared on 2026-02-20 based on repository inspection, deployment documentation, and recent merge history.\par
This summary consolidates completed workstreams, current system readiness, outstanding technical blockers, and the specific decisions or inputs required from business owners to finish production rollout.\par
\par
\par\b 1) Executive Overview\b0\par
The project has progressed through a substantial multi-phase implementation cycle with at least twenty merged feature branches covering inventory CRUD, supplier management, transactions, barcode support, expiry tracking, recipes, waste tracking, count sessions, purchase-order automation, financial dashboards, multi-location capabilities, reporting/export flows, alerts, and production-hardening tasks.\par
At a feature level, the system appears functionally broad and near-complete for core operations. Documentation for deployment, operations, and staff usage is present. Administrative controls (status and cache invalidation) are documented and protected via token-based headers.\par
However, there is at least one active technical blocker discovered during validation: backend automated tests currently fail because of a JavaScript syntax error in the items route module. This indicates the codebase is not yet release-safe without a corrective patch and revalidation.\par
In parallel, production rollout cannot complete without user/owner inputs around infrastructure selection, secrets, policy settings, and operations ownership. These are listed explicitly in Section 6 so they can be actioned immediately.\par
\par
\par\b 2) Work Completed (High-Confidence, Based on Merged Branch History)\b0\par
Recent merge history shows a structured delivery sequence from foundational inventory tracking to deployment hardening. The merged pull requests indicate completion of the following tracks:\par
• Ingredient CRUD and supplier CRUD implementation.\par
• Inventory tracking and stock-in/stock-out transaction logging.\par
• Recipe model and recipe-linking features.\par
• Barcode integration and expiry-date management.\par
• Waste tracking and inventory count session support.\par
• Automated purchase order creation.\par
• Financial insights dashboard, including follow-up enhancements.\par
• Multi-location inventory support.\par
• Frontend dashboards and operational forms.\par
• Business reporting/exports.\par
• Alerts and notifications.\par
• Finalization and production deployment system tasks.\par
This sequence demonstrates that both backend domain models and frontend operations surfaces were iteratively expanded, then hardened with deployment and observability considerations near the end of the plan.\par
\par
\par\b 3) Operational Readiness by Area\b0\par
Backend Service: The backend README and deployment runbook indicate support for health checks, overview and items endpoints, admin-protected operations, request timing logs, optional Sentry instrumentation, and cache TTL tuning. This suggests strong intent toward production operability.\par
Frontend Surface: The repository contains a full index/admin static deployment path plus a Vite React scaffold for frontend evolution. User manual content suggests operational workflows for staff and shift leads are already documented.\par
Monitoring & Supportability: Sentry is integrated as optional runtime configuration with trace sampling. A release checklist exists and includes smoke checks, migration validation, admin protection checks, and production page checks.\par
Documentation Maturity: Deployment and user manual docs are present and actionable. This significantly reduces onboarding risk for non-engineering operators.\par
\par
\par\b 4) Validation Findings from Current Check\b0\par
A direct backend test run was executed. The suite failed immediately due to a syntax error in backend/src/routes/items.js (unexpected token ')' near line 53), causing the Node test process to abort.\par
Impact: This is not a business-configuration issue; it is a code defect that blocks confidence in build stability. Even if deployment infrastructure is prepared, release should pause until this is patched and tests pass.\par
Risk Level: High for immediate production promotion, because test execution is currently non-green.\par
Recommended technical next action (engineering): Fix the syntax error, rerun backend tests, and perform smoke checks from the deployment runbook before any production cutover.\par
\par
\par\b 5) What Is Done vs. What Is Pending\b0\par
Done / Substantially Complete:\par
• Major feature roadmap milestones appear implemented via merged PR stream.\par
• Deployment, operations, and staff guidance documentation is available.\par
• Admin controls and observability hooks are designed and documented.\par
Pending / Not Yet Complete:\par
• Backend test suite is failing due to code syntax issue and must be remediated.\par
• Production go-live execution remains pending final environment configuration and owner-provided values.\par
• Post-fix regression checks and final release sign-off are still required.\par
\par
\par\b 6) Inputs Required from User/Business Owner to Finish\b0\par
The following items require explicit user, manager, or platform-owner input; engineering cannot finalize them unilaterally:\par
1. Hosting Decisions: Confirm final providers for backend hosting and managed PostgreSQL (Heroku/AWS/DigitalOcean options are documented).\par
2. Production Secrets and Config Values: Provide DATABASE_URL, ADMIN_TOKEN, SENTRY_DSN, CACHE_TTL_SECONDS target, and (if used) SENTRY_TRACES_SAMPLE_RATE.\par
3. Domain and Environment URLs: Confirm production backend URL and frontend URL so smoke tests and admin tooling can be validated against real endpoints.\par
4. Security Ownership: Identify who rotates admin token, where secrets are stored (vault/hosted secret manager), and expected rotation cadence.\par
5. Monitoring Policy: Approve alert routing and incident recipients (engineering/on-call/operations emails, paging rules).\par
6. Release Window Approval: Choose release date/time and rollback owner before migration + deploy.\par
7. Operations Contacts: Confirm shift lead/manager roles responsible for cache invalidation, incident escalation, and data correction procedures.\par
8. Data Governance Inputs: Confirm item naming conventions, inventory counting cadence, and acceptable threshold policy for reorder/safety stock behavior.\par
9. Optional Feature Prioritization: Decide whether React scaffold migration is immediate or deferred while static index/admin remain primary UI.\par
\par
\par\b 7) Recommended Immediate Plan (Next 5 Working Steps)\b0\par
Step 1: Engineering hotfix for syntax error in items route and rerun backend tests until green.\par
Step 2: User/business owner provides all production configuration values and confirms hosting stack.\par
Step 3: Execute production DB setup script and migration deploy using approved DATABASE_URL.\par
Step 4: Deploy backend + frontend, then run /health and /api/overview smoke checks plus admin endpoint token checks.\par
Step 5: Confirm Sentry event ingestion, finalize release checklist sign-off, and hand over to operations with documented runbook.\par
\par
\par\b 8) Conclusion\b0\par
The program is in a late-stage state with broad feature completion and strong documentation coverage, but not yet fully production-ready because automated backend validation is currently broken. Once the code defect is fixed and user-owned deployment/security inputs are provided, the project can move through final release activities quickly.\par
In short: most build-out tasks are done, release preparation artifacts are done, and the remaining work is concentrated in (a) one technical fix and (b) owner-provided production decisions and credentials.\par
\par
}